Added ⚡️ content to to `Onboarding` >  `Funding a wallet` #2 (#590)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet.md

# Funding a wallet

A user will need to fund their wallet with some bitcoin to begin using it. When the user funds a wallet for the first time they are likely to be introduced to new concepts that need to be clearly explained. The design flows around funding a wallet can range from simple to complex, depending on your application's target audience and which services you offer to streamline the process.

<div class="image-slide-gallery">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/own-bitcoin.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/own-bitcoin@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"

>    caption = "Ask the user if they own bitcoin."

Reviewer: Do you need the two dots? I assume the paths are different based on what choice you make, so you might not know how many steps are still to come.

   alt-text = "Screen asking the user if they own any bitcoin."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

> {% include picture.html

Reviewer: This screen is very busy and lacks a clear call-to-action for newcomers. I'd put up a big "Send your bitcoin to the address below" title. I'd also remove the completeness indicator, makes me think that I can't send the bitcoin yet. Also think the note about the channel and the "What is a channel?" link should be right next to each other.

Author: Made some changes, what do you think? 

I think letting the user know that their funds won't appear until that sync is complete is very important. I re-worded it so it's clear you can still fund while it is in progress. 

Having the user think their funds have gone missing is a bigger problem to avoid than thinking they can not fund straight away. Though as mentioned above you can explain that they can still fund while the sync is in progress with some copy.

Reviewer: Quick mock-up for simplifying this.

<img width="1050" alt="Frame 2949" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/695901/147095287-3e94b3a5-9b84-4b1f-b3e5-63c6dd623ab0.png">

Reviewer 2: @GBKS @Bosch-0 Should we update the mock or is this something we can want to do in a follow-up? Would be cool if we can get this baby merged if everything else looks good. I like the simplified version.

Author: I think this misses quite a lot of important things - if a channel is being automatically opened the user will have less funds available once that happens. If it is not explained that a channel will be opened I'd imagine they would be confused as to why they received less. I like the way the network sync is presented though. I'd have to change quite a few things if I used the above image so maybe add these in a follow up? idm 

Can you share the Figma file for this @GBKS

Reviewer 2: Yup, just asked @GBKS and we agreed this is better suited for a follow-up and some explorations. We can even invite people to post their own solutions in a workshop kind of. format after providing a case for it. Just an idea, but can be just a simple follow up PR. 

Let's merge this baby 🚀

Reviewer: I think that channel opening info + fee should be explained in a separate page that comes before this invoice screen. It's just too much for a single screen.

   image = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/funding-request.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/funding-request@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Show the user a payment request so they can fund their wallet."
   alt-text = "Screen showing payment request."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

> {% include picture.html

Reviewer: Would be cool to have a custom icon here that reflects what is happening.

   image = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/setting-up.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/setting-up@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Notify the user once the wallet has received your funds and is being set up (opening a payment channel)."
   alt-text = "Screen showing wallet is being setup."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/wallet-funded.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/wallet-funded@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Once the wallet is funded it is ready to be used."
   alt-text = "Screen showing that the wallet is now funded."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

</div>

{% include /tip/open.html label="⚡ Lightning services" icon="info" color="blue" %}

Lightning services greatly simplify the UX of funding and using a Lightning wallet. We have a dedicated section that covers funding a wallet using these services.

{% include /tip/close.html %}

> Below is an overview of a standard wallet funding flow. This expands on what we covered in the previous page covering the user's [first use]({{'/guide/onboarding/first-use/' | relative_url}}).

Author: Changed copy a bit here :)

> ## Does the user own bitcoin?

Reviewer: Could put numbers in the titles to indicate the steps?

The first step in funding a wallet is asking the user if they currently own bitcoin.

> If your user does not own bitcoin your application should guide them in obtaining some. One solution is offering a guide the user could read on how to obtain bitcoin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your user does not own bitcoin, your application should guide them in obtaining some. One solution is offering a guide the user could read on how to obtain bitcoin.
```

> Alternatively, you could offer the option to buy directly within your application which greatly simplifies the funding process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you could offer the option to buy directly within your application, which greatly simplifies the funding process.
```

> If the user wants to fund their wallet at a later time they should have the option to skip this funding process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the user wants to fund their wallet at a later time, they should have the option to skip this funding process.
```

<div class="image-slide-gallery">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/own-bitcoin.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/own-bitcoin@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Ask the user if they own any bitcoin."
   alt-text = "Screen asking the user if they own any bitcoin."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/where-to-buy.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/where-to-buy@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "If not, guide them on where to get some."
   alt-text = "Screen guiding user where to buy bitcoin."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/buy-bitcoin.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/buy-bitcoin@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Offer the option to buy bitcoin within your application."
   alt-text = "Screen showing option to buy within the application"
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

</div>

## The funding request

> The next step is present to the user an on-chain payment request so they can fund their wallet.

Author: Changed to just using payment request

<div class="center" markdown="1">

> {% include image.html

Reviewer 2: ![Screenshot 2021-12-20 at 10 10 33](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/36959754/146751783-c06efd30-6937-4d24-97d7-cf032eceeac7.png)

   image = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/funding-request.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/funding-request@2x.png"
   width = 250
   height = 541
   caption = "Show the user a funding on-chain payment request to fund their wallet."
   alt-text = "Screen showing a funding payment request"
   layout = "float-left-desktop -background -shadow"
%}

Present the payment request to the user with an easily scannable QR code alongside having the option to copy and share it.

Alongside the payment request, explain to the user that a payment channel will be opened with the received amount and that a minimum amount should be sent. This amount is to cover the network fees for opening a new payment channel.

For users who want to [manually open a channel]({{'/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/#manual-channel-opening' | relative_url}}) this screen should be skippable.

</div>

{% include /tip/open.html label="⚡ Lightning service" icon="info" color="blue" %}

With Lightning services, the user can fund their wallet directly with a Lightning payment saving time and costs.

{% include /tip/close.html %}

### Network sync

> If your application uses a method like compact block filters (BIP157/158) to sync to the Bitcoin network, which may take some time to sync, communicate to the user that their funds will not appear until the sync is complete. You may even consider not presenting a payment request until this sync is complete to prevent user confusion that their funds have not shown up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sync methods like compact block filters (BIP157/158) to sync to the Bitcoin network take some time to finish. If your application uses them, you should communicate to the user that their funds will not appear until the sync is complete. You may even consider not presenting a payment request until this sync is complete. This can help prevent users from getting confused about their funds not showing up.
```
Tried to shorten sentences.

It's recommended to start any required syncing as soon as the user opens your application to limit wait times.

## Funding the wallet

> The next step for the user to take is sending bitcoin to the payment request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step for the user is to send bitcoin to the payment request.
```

> Once the bitcoin has been sent, indicate to the user when the wallet has received the transaction and communicate it's status. Once the initial transaction has been confirmed, it's recommended to open a payment channel for the user automatically. This avoids the user having to manually find a peer and open a channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the bitcoin has been sent, indicate to the user when the wallet has received the transaction and communicate it's status. Once the initial transaction has been confirmed, it's recommended to open a payment channel for the user automatically. This way, the user does not have to manually find a peer and open a channel.
```

> Opening of a payment channel will require another on-chain transaction to be processed. If you choose to automatically open a channel for the user both the initial and channel opening transaction status can be indicated with one screen. This avoids exposing users to unnecessary complexity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Opening of a payment channel will require another on-chain transaction to be processed. If you choose to automatically open a channel for the user, the status of both the initial and the channel opening transactions can be indicated with one screen. This avoids exposing users to unnecessary complexity.
```
Tried to make the sentence easier to read.

Don't quite understand the last bit about unnecessary complexity.

Author: > Don't quite understand the last bit about unnecessary complexity.

That is referring to showing the status of both the on-chain transactions. I'd imagine it would be confusing for a user if they were exposed to two payments being processed with the one payment they send.

> Opening of a payment channel will require another on-chain transaction to be processed. If you choose to automatically open a channel for the user both the initial and channel opening transaction status can be indicated with one screen. This avoids exposing users to unnecessary complexity.

Reviewer 2: > Opening of a payment channel will require another on-chain transaction to be processed.

How about zero-confirmation channels? So instead of `will require` I'd put `usually requires, unless you choose to take a bit more risk and offer zero-cons..`

Author: That will be covered in the Lightning services sub-page. However, there is a tip at the end of the `Funding a wallet` section that hints towards this.

> Once a payment channel is open, the user's wallet is ready to use. As the user's newly opened channel only has outbound liquidity they will not be able to receive Lightning payments straight away.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a payment channel is open, the user's wallet is ready to use. As the newly opened channel only has outbound liquidity, they will not be able to receive Lightning payments yet.
```

> Once a payment channel is open, the user's wallet is ready to use. As the user's newly opened channel only has outbound liquidity they will not be able to receive Lightning payments straight away.

Reviewer 2: > As the user's newly opened channel only has outbound liquidity they will not be able to receive Lightning payments straight away.

I think this is a pain-point we can try to offer solution to. For manual channel opening this is okay to happen, but if an LSP opens channel to us?

Breez resolves this by opening % on top of the amount, but again this is risk a wallet provider may or may not be wiling to make.

Author: So I aimed to cover using LSPs in a sub-page of the funding a wallet page whereas this flow uses none. I added the tips to point towards a solution for this (these will have links to the sub-page once it is live).

<div class="image-slide-gallery">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/setting-up.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/setting-up@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Notify the user once the wallet has received your funds and is being set up."
   alt-text = "Screen showing wallet is being setup."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/pending-channel.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/pending-channel@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Viewing the wallet will show the pending channel open."
   alt-text = "Screen showing wallet is being setup."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/wallet-funded.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/wallet-funded@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Once the payment channel is opened, the wallet is ready to use."
   alt-text = "Screen showing that the wallet is now funded."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

</div>

> {% include /tip/open.html label="⚡ Lightning services" icon="info" color="blue" %}

Reviewer: Could those tip titles include the name of the service, if the service has one?

> When it comes to funding a wallet, Lightning services can prevent users waiting for confirmations to use their wallet as. They can also enable channels with inbound liqudity to be opened to the user so they can receive Lightning payments straight away.

Reviewer: Don't understand the first sentence.

{% include /tip/close.html %}

### Manual channel opening

> If a user wants to manually open a channel they should have the option to disable automatic channel opens in the settings. This is a more involved process and should be focused on more experienced users and not be the primary user flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a user wants to manually open a channel they should have the option to disable automatic channel opens in the settings. This is a more involved process and should be focused on more experienced users, and not be the primary user flow.
```

Alongside the payment request, explain to the user that a payment channel will be opened with the received amount and that a minimum amount should be sent. This amount is to cover the network fees for opening a new payment channel.

For users who want to [manually open a channel]({{'/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/#manual-channel-opening' | relative_url}}) this screen should be skippable.

</div>

{% include /tip/open.html label="⚡ Pay-to-open" icon="info" color="blue" %}

Offering a pay-to-open Lightning service allows users to fund their wallet directly with a Lightning payment.

{% include /tip/close.html %}

### Network sync

Sync methods like compact block filters (BIP157/158) to sync to the Bitcoin network take some time to finish. If your application uses them, you should communicate to the user that their funds will not appear until the sync is complete. You may even consider not presenting a payment request until this sync is complete. This can help prevent users from getting confused about their funds not showing up.

It's recommended to start any required syncing as soon as the user opens your application to limit wait times.

> ## 3. Sending the bitcoin

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 3. Sending bitcoin
```

Reviewer 2: Also, calling this `sending bitcoin` is a bit weird, from end-user perspective it's the "receiving", right? Unless. you are trying to emphasise self-sending here but I don't think we should cover that.

Author: Well it's the action the user taking to fund their wallet. What do you mean by self-sending? The user is sending it to them selves from whatever external source they have their bitcoin

Reviewer 2: Yes, that's exactly what I mean, I just think calling it sending may sound confusing. Perhaps initial funding, but I am not really sure, my perception of it is that it's weird, perhaps other's don't think it is.

The next step for the user is to send bitcoin to the wallet.

> Once the bitcoin has been sent, notify the user once it's received. This should be followed by notifying the user that their wallet is being setup. The setup process being the confirmation of the first transaction and opening of a new payment channel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once bitcoin has been sent, notify the user once it's received. This should be followed by notifying the user that their wallet is being setup. The setup process being the confirmation of the first transaction and opening of a new payment channel.
```

> Once the bitcoin has been sent, notify the user once it's received. This should be followed by notifying the user that their wallet is being setup. The setup process being the confirmation of the first transaction and opening of a new payment channel.

Reviewer 2: This again complicates the flow and emphasises self-sending?

Author: I'm not sure what you mean by self-sending?

Reviewer 2: > Once the bitcoin has been sent, notify the user once it's received.

I think whoever is reading this is lost at this point on what's happening, who's doing what.

{% include /tip/open.html label="⚡ Zero confirmation channels" icon="info" color="blue" %}

Offering a zero confirmation channel Lightning service allows users to use their wallet without having to wait for confirmations.

{% include /tip/close.html %}

> For beginner users, it's recommended to open a payment channel for them automatically once the initial transaction is confirmed. This way, they don't have to manually find a peer and open a channel.

Reviewer 2: Who are they opening channel to? Is a wallet provider opening it to them, or is user opening to someone automatically. I think we should be clear here on `who is who` so people don't get lost, I did get lost a bit here tbh.

And if a wallet provider is opening a channel on behalf of users, isn't that then a lightning service? Confused since you specifically said this flow excludes any lightning service.

Author: To the wallet providers Lighting node automatically yes. They aren't opening a channel for the user the application just automatically opens to a pre-selected node (the wallets ideally). So I wouldn't call this a Lightning service per se. Will clarify this some more

Reviewer 2: So what you're suggesting here is just auto-channel opening to a random node? I think that's really bad practice, but if it opens channels to the provider's node only, that to me is a service, because it won't work unless provider provides certain % on top of the liquidity like Breez does.

Author: No I'm not recommending that, it would be to the wallet providers node like Blixt does. 

You can have a channel opened to the wallet providers node without any interaction from them, service, or additional fees. It would only have outbound capacity in this scenario. 

It's just creating and broadcasting a channel open automatically without the user manually doing the process.

Reviewer 2: I see now what you mean, can we then revise this so it's a bit clearer and make sure to tell about the tradeoffs like having only onbound capacity?

Once a payment channel is open, the user's wallet is ready to use. As the newly opened channel only has outbound liquidity, they will not be able to receive Lightning payments yet.

{% include /tip/open.html label="⚡ Pay-to-open" icon="info" color="blue" %}

> Offering a pay-to-open Lightning service allows users to receive Lighting payments as soon as they fund their wallet.

Reviewer 2: This is great, but on top of the page we said "no lightning service"
![Screenshot 2021-12-20 at 18 14 29](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/36959754/146807142-3b600336-3f13-47f9-9c50-c09191dc0519.png)
, so I am confused a bit 😄

Author: See my comment above about auto-channel opens. I don't consider that to be a Lightning service it's something that the app can just be automated to do.

Reviewer 2: I am not sure, to me this still sounds like a type of "service" we're doing on behalf of the user.

# Funding a wallet

To have users begin using your wallet they will need to fund it with some bitcoin. Users funding a wallet for the first time are likely to be introduced to new concepts that will need to be clearly explained to them. The design flows around funding a wallet can range from simple to complex depending on your applications target audience and/or what services you offer to streamline the process. 

Below we explore a standard funding approach that does not make use of any Lightning services. Lightning services are services that can be offered by your application that avoid users having to manually manage and configure their wallet. We explore the user flows around funding with Lightning services in our using Lightning services page. 

The below flow expands on what we covered in the previous page covering the users [first use]({{'/guide/onboarding/first-use/' | relative_url}}).

## Do your users own bitcoin?

> The first step in having users fund your wallet is finding out if they currently own bitcoin or not. This will determine what kind of information to present to your users next as well as guide them towards how they will fund their wallet. If the user wants to fund their wallet at a later time they should have the option to skip this process and jump straight into the wallet.

Author: I think we should cover that in `Restoring a wallet` and focus on this page being an extension of `First use`

If your user does not have any bitcoin, your application should guide them in obtaining some. This could be done by recommending users find a local exchange to buy bitcoin from and to come back once they have some before proceeding. Alternatively, you could offer the option to buy directly within your application to speed up this process.

<div class="image-slide-gallery">

> {% include picture.html

Author: That was intentional, just a preference of mine but will add the tilt for consistency with other UI kit images :)

Yes also intentional, that is a detour from the main on-boarding screens. Will be re-working this page based on above discussion and will make this more clear also.

   image = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/own-bitcoin.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/own-bitcoin@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Ask the user if they own any bitcoin."
   alt-text = "Screen asking the user if they own any bitcoin."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/where-to-buy.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/where-to-buy@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "If not, guide them on where to get some."
   alt-text = "Screen guiding user where to buy bitcoin."
   width = 250
   height = 541

> %}

Author: It's too hard to recommend places unless the wallet is only located in one location. But agree we could have a better solution here. 

Personally though I think Googling would be the number one way people do find exchanges to buy bitcoin though despite the scams (I don't think it's that rampant of an issue).

> %}

Reviewer: This is a situation where a crowdsourced community user guide would be helpful. Like a design guide, but it would focus on how-to for users. Wallets could link out to it for various things like backup tutorials, how-to-buy bitcoin, etc. Doesn't make much sense to me that all wallets need to recreate this stuff. Not sure how much of this already exists in one form or another.

> %}

Reviewer 2: I think that a wallet optionally integrating a way for users to buy btc can be a good revenue stream for them as well as a smooth UX.

> %}

Reviewer 3: I agree with @pavlenex.

- If the user is inexperienced enough to where they need to be told to find bitcoin via a Google search, then they are inexperienced enough to need to be guarded from accidentally stumbling into a scam or accidentally acquiring Bitcoin Cash or Doge.
- If the user is experienced enough to be trusted finding bitcoin via a Google search, then they are so experienced they don't need to be told where to find bitcoin.

You do raise a good point @Bosch-0 about exchanges not working in every jurisdiction. It would be a very US-centric worldview to simply declare "just use XYZ Exchange". Nonetheless, I think the risk of accidentally sending the user down a Google rabbit hole is worse.

One potential solution: wallet has an (entirely optional) search function where the user can seek out an exchange. "Select your country" to find a recommended exchange.

> %}

Author: What about just making this generic and mentioning it's up to the application to recommend where to send users to buy?

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/buy-bitcoin.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/buy-bitcoin@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Alternatively, offer the option to buy bitcoin directly in your application."
   alt-text = "Screen showing option to buy within the application"
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

</div>

## How it works

If the user has purchased some bitcoin either outside or within your application, or they already own some, the next thing should be explaining how their wallet works once its funded. 

> Once users funds their wallet and they have a channel open they will initially only be able to send Lightning payments. This is due to the payment channel the user opens in later steps only having outbound liquidity. This can also be an opportunity to give a soft introduction to what a payment channel is and how they work. This should be clear to users before they fund the wallet to avoid future friction.

Reviewer 3: @GBKS The whole "How it works" section confused me a lot on my first read-through. I felt the same way @GBKS; I wasn't clear if the channel opening had already occurred or was going to occur in the future.

Having read the page multiple times, I think @Bosch-0 is trying to convey a scenario similar to Blixt where you fund your wallet on-chain and then a channel is automatically opened once your funds are cleared on-chain. Thus, it's most proper to explain to the user what is going to happen to their money.

So I see the logic in needing to explain to the reader what is going to happen in a later step. Perhaps it could be more concise or worded differently.

> Once users funds their wallet and they have a channel open they will initially only be able to send Lightning payments. This is due to the payment channel the user opens in later steps only having outbound liquidity. This can also be an opportunity to give a soft introduction to what a payment channel is and how they work. This should be clear to users before they fund the wallet to avoid future friction.

Author: Yes @sbddesign is correct with what I was aiming to do here, I will make this section more concise as to avoid confusion.

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include image.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/funding-request.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/funding-request@2x.png"
   width = 250
   height = 541
   caption = "Show the user a funding on-chain payment request to fund their wallet."
   alt-text = "Screen showing a funding payment request"
   layout = "float-left-desktop -background -shadow"
%}

The funding request should be shown with an easily scannable QR alongside the option to copy and share the address. Having a payment channel automatically opened when the wallet is funded is recommended. This avoids users having to manually find a peer and open a channel. However, you should also give the option to disable automatic channel opening for users who want to have more control of their wallet.

This screen should communicate that a payment channel will be opened with the received funds. It should also state an amount to send that can cover the on-chain transaction fee for opening a payment channel and have enough left over so the user can make some payments.

</div>

### Network sync

> Depending on how your application connects to the Bitcoin network you may want to show the status of the network sync on the same screen as the funding payment request. 

Reviewer 3: Hardline view: users should not be allowed to generate an on-chain address until block filters have synced for the first time.

I have witnessed a problem with wallets where you send money to the wallet, and then don't see it for several hours due to block filter sync issues. That's fine for me personally; I grasp the concept of "still syncing" and "go check a block explorer if in doubt". I just fear that's too much for onboarding a new user.

Thoughts, anyone? Is my viewpoint too radical?

## Funding the wallet

The next step for the user to take is sending sats to the on-chain address. Once the funds have been sent, your wallet should notify the user that they have a pending balance and that they should be available soon. Offering a link to the transaction on a block explorer will help the user track the progress of their funds. Lightning services can avoid having your users wait for confirmed funds to use their wallet.

Once the on-chain transaction is confirmed, a payment channel should be initiated if the user hasn’t opted to manually open a channel. This will incur an on-chain transaction that the user will have to wait to be confirmed before they can access their funds. This should be clearly communicated to the user. 

Once the payment channel is opened the user should be notified that their wallet is now funded and ready to use. It should also be clear to the user at this stage that they can only receive via Lightning as they only have outbound liquidity. 

<div class="image-slide-gallery">

> {% include picture.html

Reviewer 3: I am surprised that "View on block explorer" is a very large call-to-action button.

If the wallet has its own block filters, I don't see why the wallet can't display its own transaction confirmation status.

If someone new to bitcoin clicks that giant CTA, they are going to end up on a block explorer showing them TXIDs, on-chain addresses, fees per vbytes, and all sorts of stuff that will look like complete gibberish to them.

"View in block explorer" is an option that's available but tucked away for an advanced users, IMHO.

   image = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/setting-up.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/setting-up@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Notify the user once the wallet has received your funds and is being set up (opening a payment channel)."
   alt-text = "Screen showing wallet is being setup."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

> {% include picture.html

Author: Only if you are using Lightning services this can be done. Or if the user manually opens an inbound channel with say LNBig

   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/peer.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/peer@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "A peer found by visiting amboss.com. The user copys the peers address to open a channel with them."
   alt-text = "Screen showing a peer on amboss.com."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/open-channel.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/open-channel@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "The user opens a channel with their selected peer."
   alt-text = "Screen showing manual channel open UI."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/wallet-funded.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/wallet-funded@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Once a channel has been opened the wallet is ready to use. "
   alt-text = "Screen showing that a payment channel has been opened."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

</div>

> ## Overview

Reviewer 3: @Bosch-0 Yeah, I agree. I think if you put the entire flow at the top of the page, it would make more sense. Just showing the reader the entire flow before discussing it point-by-point would be helpful.

For example, per the [discussion in this thread](https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/590/files#r768507191), the "How it works" section might make more sense if the reader has already seen an overview of the whole flow.
